#  Functional Testing  
* Functional testing is in the domain of black box testing  
* Black box testing deals only with inputs and outputs applied to code, design, requirements  
* Black box testing is also referred to as functional testing  
* A program P is viewed as a function that transforms inputs xi to outputs yi such that yi=P(xi) where yi and xi are vectors of inputs and outputs  
* Domain of input and outputs must be understood first  
* Select values from the domain of inputs and select corresponding output  
* Combinations of test cases from different domains are considered  
* Input values chosen must produce special values  
* Soemtimes to do functional testing, the context in which a function is invoked may be needed. For example, if x>20 call a function g  
  
* Types of functional testing:   
  * Equivalence class partitioning: Assumes input domain is large, so partition inputs such that finite number of partitions and each partition is sub domain and is an equivalence class. All inputs from one sub domain have the same effect (output is same)
  * Boundary Value Analysis: Test inputs near the boundary of the data domain are chosen. If the partition has an ordered set of elements, then consider the first and last element. If the partition specifies a number of values, test for minimum and max value of the number, and also a value smaller than minimum and greater than the maximum.    
  * Pair-wise testing: orthogonal arrays  
  * Decision tables: Equivalence class partitioning considers inputs individually. Decision tables can consider a combination of equivalence classes.   
    * Decision table has conditions, value for the conditions (Yes - y, No - n, - is dont care), and rules that specifiy if for each rule a condition is needed. All possibile combinations are considered (3 conditions so 2^3 combinations hence 8 rules and each column has all possible combinations of Y and N)  
    * There are also effects and numbers associated with each effect and rule. These numbers are the effect sequence number which specified the order in which the effect should be carried out if the corresponding conditions are satisfied  
    * There is a checksum row at the end for verification of the combinations (should be 2^3)  
  * Random Testing: pick a random input and test. Monkey runners is a tool which produces random inputs. It can check if exceptions and error conditions are handled.   
  
