# Input Space Partitioning  
* It is the same as equivalence class partioning  
* Given a set S, a partition of S is a subset of sets such that the subsets are disjoint and the union of all subsets is the set S  
* The set that is split into partitions is the input domain  
* Each partition is based on some characteristic. The characteristic allows the user to partition. for example, characteristic order of file and partitions are ascending, descending. But this overlaps if file size is 1. So characteristics must be chosen accordingly  
* Partition must be complete and cover the whole domain and also be disjoint.
* Input domain modelling  
  * Identify testable functions: Identify which functions are to be tested  
  * Identify the parameters than can affect a given testable functions and the parameters together give the input domain  
  * Identify the characteristics and partition for each characteristic  
  * Get the tets inputs which is a tuple of values with a value for each parameter  
  * 2 approaches for input domain modelling are:  
    * Interface based approach: Considers each parameter in isolation, and it is each to identify characteristics. Disadvantage is that not all info available to tester is reflected in the interface domain model and is incomplete. And sometimes combinations of interface parametrs may need to be considered  
    * Functionality based approach: Characteristics are based on functionality of the system and npt using the interface. It is based on requirements and is better than interface based. Since it is based on functionality, identifying characteristics is difficult     
* More combinations makes it more likely to fund faults  
* On choosing characteristics, the domain of characteristics needs to be divided into sets called blocks  
* More blocks results in more tests  
* Identifying values: valid values, boundary, invalid, a range of valid values can be further partitioned to sub partitions, might be cheap to add more partitions to characteristics that have less partitions  
