 # Input space partitioning coverage criteria  
 * **All combinations Coverage AcoC**: All combinations of blocks from all characteristics must be used. ex: [A,B],[1,2,3],[x,y] where the values inside the partitions are blocks so 12 (product of number of blocks in each characteristic). It generates all possible combinations so might not always be necessary  
 * **Each choice coverage**: One value from each block for each characteristic must be used in at least one test case.for example, [A,B], [1,2,3] then (A,1), (B,2) and 3 must also be included so it can go along with A or B. Total number of test cases is max number of blocks in any characteristic. It is a weak coverage criteria and might leave out important combinations  
 * **Pair wise coverage**: A value from each block for each characteristic must be combined with a value from every block for each other characteristic. example, 3 partitions with 2,3,2 blocks, then `2*3+2*2+3*2` pairs in total. The chosen test cases can each then cover as many number of pairs.
 * **T wise coverage**: A value from each block for each group of t characteristics must be combined.If the value for T is chosen to be the number of partitions, then TWC is equivalent to all combinations. The test suite has atleats max number of blocks to the power t values.  
 * The above criterias consider combinations blindly. the next 2 do not consider it blindly. There will be an important block for each partition and this is the **base choice**  
 * **Base Choice Coverage**: A base choice is chosen for each characteristic and a base test is formed using the base choice. Each time except for 1 characteristic, base choice is chosen for all others and the other one alone is varied for all combinations. The base test has base choice for all characteristics. Totally, 1 + (Bi-1) for each i from 1 to n where n is number of characteristics  
 * **Multiple Base Choice Coverage**: Sometimes, multiple base choices may be chosen. Base tests are formed using each base choice for each characteristic. If there are mi base choices for each character and M base tests, then M+(M*(Bi-mi)) for i=1 to n  
   
* All combinations subsumes all others. T wise subsumes pair wise. Multiple base choice subsumes base choice. Pair wise and base choice both subsume each choice   
 
* infeasible combinations of partitions are also possible. Constraints are relations between partitions from different characteristics  
* the 2 constraints are:  
   * A block from one characteristic cannot be combined with another block from another characteristic  
    * A block from one characteristic must be combined with another block from another characteristic  
* For ACoC , PWC and TWC, must drop infeasible combinations  
* For BCC and MBCC, base case can be altered  
