  
* Execs can be a tree with assignments having one successor and conditions with 1 or 2,and leaves are abort or halt  
&nbsp;  
* symbolic memory S maps memory addresses to expressions  
* Whenever a path constraint is not linear, algo uses concrete values and not symbolic  
&nbsp;
### Symbolic evaluation of expressions  
* just a variable, then directly return symbolic expression which is S(m) if m is in S and M(m) otherwise  
* `*(e',e") where * can be any arithmetic operation`:operands e' and e" so each should seperately be evaluated first. if either of the 2 evaluated expressions is not a constant then non linear expression is obtained so ust do concrete evaluation. If both are constants then do concrete evaluation. Otherwise if 1 is a constant, evaluate that expression and return  
* case `*e'` : pointer so first evaluate e', and then see if a constant is obtained. if it is a constant and is in the domain S, then `S*C `, otherwise M(`*c`). if it is not a constant then evaluate concrete  
* all_locs_definite variable in symbolic eval algo: it is set to 0 if the value of a variable is not known. for example when a program dereferences a pointer whose value depends on some input parameter  
* substituting concrete values overcomes unsolvability of pc by constraint solver sometimes  
  &nbsp;
### DART test driver  
* initialize all boolean to true  
* Repeat loop while all linear and all locations are defined  
* DART keeps a stack , input vector and boolean var directed which is for directed search  
* instrument program is a function called in the test driver with stack and input vector  
* DART can run forever  
* instrumented program initializes inputs with random values in input vector if not initialized  
* it initializes memory and sets uo symbolic memory, sets initial program counter  
* if a new assignment statement is encountered, is is symbolically and concretely evaluated and memory location is updated  
* for conditional statement, concrete evaluation done and checks if it shoulf take then or else branch and updates path constraint and stack accordingly  
* stack keeps track of path constraint that was last added  
* the PC at the Ifp if the stack is what dart will flip  
* If halt is encountered, must solve path constraint, calls a constraint solver  
* in the instrumented prorgam, branch value is recorded and is 1 for then. done value is noted and is 0 when path has already been explored  
* stack has infro related to each conditional statement.  
* if DART prints bug found, then input that causes abort. If terminates without printing then no input that causes abort. otherwise it runs forever

