# Testing Based on Models and Criteria  
  
* Testability: is the software testable( can inputs be give, executed, and outputs be observed)  
* Observability: How easy is it to observe the behaviour of a program in terms of its outputs, other internal factors  
* Controllability: how easy is it to provide a program with the needed inputs (giving inputs to a function deep in the software)  
* Testability consists of observability and controllability  
  
RIPR Model: conditions necessary for failure to be observed:  
* Reachability: fault location should be reached  
* Infection: state should be incorrect  
* Propogation: Incorrect output must be produced  
* Reveal: Tester must observe incorrect position of the program  
  
Model Based Testing  
* Working with the model of the software and deriving test cases from model  
* Model can be based on mathematical notation, or modelling language like UML, ..    
* Models can be made for the requirements or design stage
* Start with software artifact and come up with a model. Refine test requirements and have inputs ready. Test script prepared by automation. Inputs can the be passed and execution is done.  
* Models represent a software artifact or its abstraction. There are no models for code.  
* Graphs can be extracted from code or from design elements such as fsm  
* Logical predicates are present at every decision statement  
* models are considered for defining coverage criteria  
  
Models:  
  * Graphs  for control flow or data flow  
  * Logical Expressions  
  * Sets (input domain for black box)  
  * Grammars: syntax of language represented using grammar  
    
Predicate coverage: making the predicate both true and false  
Test requirement is to achieve predicate coverage 
  
* Test requirement: A requirement given for a test case. ex: cover a while loop 3 iterations  
* Criteria: Rule or set of rules that impose requirements on test cases. Given a set of test requirements TR for a coverage criteria, a set of test cases T satisfies C iff for evert tr in TR, there is one test t in T such that t satisfies tr.  
* A coverage criteria that is not satisfiable is infeasible. (ex  a predicate that is a tautology so can never be false)  
  
Coverage criteria used in 2 ways:  
  * Generator: Generate test cases to satisfy coverage criteria  
  * Recognizer: Generate externally and check if the cases meet coverage criteria  
    
Criteria Subsumption  
* Coverage criteria C1 subsumes C2 iff every test case that satisfies C1 satisfies C2  
* Subsumption only applies to feasible criteria  


  


