# Mutation Testing  
* Mutation testing at integration level: Integration mutation and is also known as interface mutation and creates mutants on connections between components  
* Integration mutation operators  
  * Change calling method by modifying parameters sent to called method  
  * Change calling method by modifying call  
  * Change called method by modifying values that enter and leave the method  
  * Change called method by modifying statements that return from the method (only return statements)  
*   There are 5 interface mutation operators  
  * Integration parameter variable replacement (IVPR): Each parameter in method call is replaced by each other variable with compatible type and in the scope. In OO, replace primitive type vars and objects  
  * Integration unary operation insertion (IUOI): Each expression in method call modified by inserting all possible unary operators in front and behind the variable in parameter  
  * Integration parameter exchange (IPEX): Each parameter in method call is exchanged with each parameter of compatible type in that method call ex add(a,b) becomes add(b,a)  
  * Integration method call deletion(IMCD): Each method call is deleted. If the method returns a value and is used in an expression then constant value replaces it. If method returns obbject, method call replaced by new() so new empty object created  
  * Inegration return expression modification (IREM): Each expression in each return statement in a method is modified using unary operator insertion and arithmetic operator replacement  
  
* Object oriented conecpts for integration testing  
  * Encapsulation: abstraction mechanism to enforce information hiding. Objects can restrict access to member variables and methods by other objects. Java has 4 access levels, provate, protected, public and default(package)  
  * Inheritance: subclass inherits from parent class and can inherit variables and method and can also inherit from ancestors. Every class can have only one parent in java. super. can access parent variables and methods.  
  * Method overriding: Allows method in subclass to have same name and args as parent, and it allows methods to be redefined  
  * Variable hiding: defining a variable in a child class that has same name and type as inherited variable so inherited variable hidden in child class  
  * Constructor is a method to create an object and takes arguments. super keyword used to explicitly call it and this clal must be first statement in derived class constructor with the correct parameters  
  * Polymorphism: attributes and methods. They use dynamic binding. Object has a declared type and an actual type. actual type can be declared type or any descendent  
  * Polymorphic attribute is an object reference that can take various types  
  * Polymorphic method can accept parameters of different types by having parameter of object type  
  * Overloading:Same name for constructor or method but different signature (arguments). It occurs for methods within a class  
  * Instance and class variables are associated with a class. Instance variables belong to an object and every instance has own copy of variables and changes reflect only in that instance. Class variables are static and there is only 1 copy which is shared amonst all instances. Class variables are declared with static. local variables declared within methods  
  
