# Mutation testing for integration  
* Mutation operators for OO features  
  * Access modifier change(AMC): Access level for each instance variable and method changed to other access levels. Ensures accessibility is correct. AMC mutant killed only if new access level denires access to another class or allows access that casues name conflict  
  * Hiding variable deletion(HVD): Declaration of overriding or hiding variable is deleted. References to that variable then access parent definition  
  * Hiding variable insertion(HVI): Declaration is added to hide declaration of variable in ancestor. Mutant can be killed only by test cases that can show that reference to overriding variable is incorrect  
  * Overriding method deletion (OMD): Each entire declaration of the overriding method is deleted so parent method is used  
  * Overriding method moving(OMM): Each call to an overriden method is moved to the first and last statements of the method, and uo and down one method. Overriding methods in child call mathod in parent so call may be at the wrong time so by moving around the call checks if call is at wrong time  
  * Overriding method rename(OMR): Renames parents verisons of the methods that are overridden in a sub class so that overriding doesnt affect parents method.  
  * Super keyword deletion(SKD): delets each occurrence of super so reference will be to local and not to ancestor  
  * Parent Constructor deletion(PCD): Each call to super constructor is deleted. Therefore, default constructor is used. to kill these mutants test case where default constructor causes incorrect initial state should be found  
  * Actual Type Change (ATC): Actual type of a new object is changed in the new() statement. Causes object reference to reer to an object of a type that is different from the original actual type. New actual type must be in same tyoe family of original actual type  
  * Declared/Parameter type chande (DTC/PTC): The declared type of each new object/each parameter object changed in the declaration. New declared type muct be ancestor of original type. To kill such mutants, test case must cause object behavior to be wrong with new declared type  
  * Reference Type Change (RTC): Right side objects of assignment statements changed to refer to objects of compatible type. FOr ecample if Integer os assigned to refer to Object, replace to String since both are from Object  
  * Overloading Method Change (OMC): For each pair of methods that have same name, bodies are interchanged. Tests errors relating to overloading methods invoked wrongly  
  * Overloading method deletion(OMD): Each overloaded method declaration is deleted one at a time. Ensures coverage of overloaded methods, all must be invoked atleast once. If mutant works correctly even after deleting, then error. Otherwise, incorrect method would be invoked or incorrect parameter tyoe conversion  
  * Argument order change (AOC): Order of arguments  in method invocatino us changed to be the same as that of another overloading method so different method is called  
  * Argument number change (ANC): Number of arguments in method invocations changed so that same as another overloading method. Therefore can ensure programmer did not invoke wrong method  
  * this Keyword Deletion (tkd): Each occurrence of this is deleted. Checks if memer variables are used correctly  
  * Static modifier change(SMC): Each instance of static modifier is removed and is added to instance variables so checks if instance and class variables are correct  
  * Variable initialization deletion (VID): remove initialization of each member variable. Member variables are initialized to the default values.  
  * Default constructor deletion(DCD): Delete each declaration of default constructor(constructor with no parameters). ensures that user defined constructors are implemented properly  
  
