# Structural coverage criteria  
* **Node/vertex coverage**: test cases should visit every reachable node once  
* **Edge coverage**: Visit every reachable path of length up to 1 (length 0 means just a vertex. edge coverage subsumes node coverage)  
* **Edge pair coverage**: Visit every reachable path of length up to 2 (subsumes edge coverage). Could be useful for branches  
* Path Coverage  
  * **Complete path coverage** :TR contails all paths in G  (infeasible) so we consider **specified path coverage** where TR contains a set S of paths which the user specifies. If the graph has a loop, then complete path coverage is infeasible.  
  * Test cases must cover the loop: execute the loop at its bounfary confition (skip loop) and execute it once for normal iterations  
  * Simple path: no node appears more than once except for the first and last node (every loop is a simple path)  
  * Prime path: Simple path that is not a subpath of any other simple path  

  * **Prime path coverage (loops)**: Must cover all prime paths in a graph. It skips a loop and also executes it. It also subsumes node and edge, but does not subsume edge pair coverage if the graph has a self loop  
  * Some codes may have a do while loop which enters the loop atleast once therefore causing a node to repeat twice in the path.  
  * Tour with side trip: Test path p tours sub path q with side trip iff every edge in q is also in p in the same order (can include sidetrip but must come back and execute in same order)  
  * Tour with detours: Test path p tours sub path q with detour iff every node in q is also in p in the same order. Detour from node n can be included as long as it comes back to the prime path at successor of n.  
  * If side trips are not allowed, then may have infeasible test requirements. But cannot always allow  
  * **Best effort touring**: Satisfy as many test requirements as possible without sidetrips and use sidetrips to satisfy remaining  
  * Round trip:starts and ends at same node. length cannot be zero and it is a prime path.  
  * **Complete round trip coverage**: TR contains all round trip paths for each reachable node in the graph that begins and ends in a round trip path  
  * **Simple round trip coverage**: Contains atleast 1 round trip path for each reachable node in the graph that begins and ends in a round trip path  
  * Round trip coverage does not subsume edge, node or edge pair coverage
 
